# **Machine Learning Classification of Online Climate Misinformation**

This project was carried out for EEPS1710: Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning at Brown University. Project was carried out by Livia Gimenes, Will Kattrup, Cali Rivera. 

Bellow is the abstract of the project:

The objective of this paper is to explore the capabilities of a supervised machine learning model to classify climate change misinformation. We focused on training and fine-tuning the model originally developed by Coan et al, using the data from that same paper, and later applied the model to data that was scraped from political subreddits. Out of the models that were experimented with, RoBERTa was found to perform best. While deploying the model to the Reddit datasets, two fine-tuned versions of RoBERTa were used. The models were first tested on a climate skeptics subreddit and a climate scientist subreddit. While the models identified more misinformation in the former subreddit than the latter, they were found to be over-predicting contrarian claims. Unfortunately, that trend continued for the political dataset. Because of these results and the limited size of our data set, we believe that it would be ill-advised to attempt to make any claims regarding trends in climate misinformation based on these results. For further work, we would like to explore additional methods of addressing class imbalanced data as well as use a larger data set for further exploration of trends in climate misinformation on Reddit. We would also like to explore further data pre-processing and transfer learning-based approaches to better adapt the model to novel data.

Follow the link bellow for the full paper of the project: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GC1zvMg0N7NwfuFQDPFLHLmeognF1XXq5pl3ok5kvzk/edit?usp=sharing. Please reach out to livia_gimenes@brown.edu for any inqueries about the project.
